                                                                                                
 Forza Horizon 5 gets Hollywood cars from Jurassic Park and Back to the Future  
Microsoft’s Forza Horizon 5 is one of the most successful racing games from the tech giant out there. As part of its Universal Icons Car Pack, five new cars from top Hollywood movie franchises like Jurassic Park, Back to the Future trilogy and the ‘80s action TV show Knight Rider arrived today in Forza Horizon 5.The list of the five iconic Hollywood cars that have come to Forza Horizon 5 includes-The 1992 Jeep Wrangler Sahara from Jurassic ParkThe original Time Machine from Back to the FutureThe Time Machine (with Mr. Fusion attachment) from Back to the Future IIThe third iteration of the Time Machine from Back to the Future III, and,K.I.T.T. from the action TV show Knight RiderThe 1992 Jeep Wrangler Sahara from Jurassic Park could be the ideal car for something like off-road racing in Mexico or a relaxing tour.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad The 1992 Jeep Wrangler Sahara from Jurassic ParkThe original Time Machine from Back to the Future featureslights and sounds you saw in the first film in the sci-fi trilogy. Once you hit 88 mph, the lights-and-sounds show will burst out of the car.The Time Machine featured in Back to the Future II comes packed with the Mr. Fusion attachment. Hit 88mph and see the unique effects. Related stories Microsoft, Apple drop OpenAI board plans as scrutiny growsMicrosoft may be planning to make your computer screen more private, here’s howMicrosoft lays off more employees in fresh round of job cuts Back to the Future III’s Time Machine will give a different experience than the first two iterations. Of course, once the car reaches 88 mph, you’ll see the “iconic VFX” featured in the trilogy topper of the Back to the Future film series. The Time Machine from Back to the Future 3Knight Rider's K.I.T.T. comes with its “iconic front red light turned on”. Now, K.I.T.T. is a “muscle car powered by justice and artificial intelligence” with a Super Pursuit Mode. To activate the Super Pursuit Mode, there is a body kit in K.I.T.T.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Knight Rider's K.I.T.T.The Universal Icon Car Pack in Forza Horizon 5 costs $10.
       