                                                                                                
 Nvidia head Jensen Huang is the 13th richest person in the world.  
Nvidia co-founder and CEO Jensen Huang has always spoken about how his humble beginnings shaped the type of business leader he is today. The 13th richest person in the world once cleared tables, washed dishes, and even cleaned toilets.“To me, no task is beneath me because, remember, I used to be a dishwasher (and) I used to clean toilets,” Huang told students at the Stanford Graduate School of Business earlier this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“I mean, I cleaned a lot of toilets... I’ve cleaned more toilets than all of you combined -- and, some of them you just can’t unsee,” he said.Now, as the head of a computer chip giant worth more than $3.1 trillion, Huang said he still tries to approach his job today without being afraid of getting his hands dirty. He added that he is willing to take on anything if he believes he can help his employees improve the company.“If you send me something and you want my input on it and I can be of service to you -- and, in my review of it, share with you how I reasoned through it -- I’ve made a contribution to you,” CNBC Make It quoted Huang as saying. Related stories Here's how Nvidia's chips may disrupt big fat Indian weddingsNvidia leads Nasdaq and S&P 500 to record high closes In a previous interview, the Nvidia boss was informed that his employees describe him as a boss who is "not easy to work with". But he seemed unaffected by it. In fact, he welcomed it. He said that the route to doing extraordinary things shouldn't be easy.In an interview on 60 Minutes, the correspondent Bill Whitaker shared some of the words employees of the leading software company had used to describe Huang: "Demanding, perfectionist, not easy to work for."Responding to this, the 61-year-old said those traits fitted him "perfectly."Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It should be like that," he was as quoted saying by the Business Insider. "If you want to do extraordinary things, it shouldn't be easy."
       